.TH xcin 1 "Oct 26 2001" 
.SH NAME
xcin \- X window Chinese INput XIM server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xcin [ \-d DISPLAY ] 
.B [ \-h ] 
.B [ \-m ] 
.B [ \-r rcfile ] 
.B [ \-x XIM_name ] 
.fB

.SH DESCRIPTION
XCIN is a XIM (X Input Method) server which is widely used in Taiwan to perform
Chinese input under X Window system. It is originally developed by Edward Der-Hua Liu (Oct. 1994)
and many other programmers in early days; while now it is supported by the XCIN Project.

New XCIN design follows the Xi18N standard and locale mechanism. You should have locale
supported in your system C library and installed before you run xcin.
You also need the libtabe, a input method table, and Berkeley DB2 library to run xcin.
XCIN allows you to input the Chinese characters to a X client which supports XIM
mechanism too.

Currently, XCIN project supports big5(used in Taiwan), big5hkscs(used in Hong Kong) 
and gb2312(used in China) character set/encodings. The input method currently support

big5 character set:
cj simplex phone bimspinyin bimsphone jyutping 
array30 jyutping0 zh_hex

big5hkscs character set:
cj zh_hex

gb2312 character set:
pinyin shuangpin jtcj_gb wubizixing phonegb2
array30 zh_hex

XCIN has been tested and supported in the following platform with different encoding name:

GNU/Linux
                $(BIG5):        big5
                $(BIG5HKSCS):   big5hkscs
                $(GB2312):      gb2312
                $(GBK):         gbk

FreeBSD
                $(BIG5):        big5
                $(GB2312):      euc

HP-UX 
                $(BIG5):        big5
                $(BIG5HKSCS):   hkbig5
                $(GB2312):      hp15cn

.SH OPTIONS
[ \-d ] : set X Display.

[ \-h ] : print help message.

[ \-m ] : print the comment of module "mod_name".

[ \-r ] : set user specified rcfile.

[ \-v ] : print the version of xcin.

[ \-x ] : register XIM server name to Xlib.

.SH FILES
XCIN search the configuration file, the rcfile, in the following order.

.TP
$HOME/.xcin/xcinrc  
This is a lisp file in user's home directory.
.TP
$HOME/.xcinrc       
This is another lisp file in user's home directory.
.TP
$PREFIX/etc/xcinrc  
This is a system wide configuration file.

Note that the /etc/xcinrc or /usr/local/etc/xcinrc is set up by
configure script when you compile the xcin with default prefix directory.

.SH RCFILE
The rcfile is a lisp program file. The main program global setting are:
.TP
XCIN_DEFAULT_DIR:
XCIN default data directory, which will contain the IM tables, IM
.BR 
modules, and other data files.

.TP
XCIN_USER_DIR:
User specified data directory. If it is not a relative path, then
.BR
it will start with the user's $HOME directory.

.TP
INDEX_FONT:
The font used to display the English IM name (in the right-bottom
.BR
corner of the xcin main window).

.TP
FG_COLOR:
The foreground color of xcin windows.

.TP
BG_COLOR:
The background color of xcin windows.

.TP
M_FG_COLOR:
The specially displayed foreground color (e.g., the preedit area,
.BR
mutiple characters for selection).

.TP
M_BG_COLOR:
The specially displayed background color (e.g., the preedit area,
.BR 
mutiple characters for selection).

.TP
ULINE_COLOR:
The color of phrases marking underline of xcin windows.

.TP
GRID_COLOR:
The grid color of xcin windows.

.TP
X_GEOMETRY:
The size and position of xcin main window.

.TP
START_MAINWIN2:
Open the xcin 2nd main window or not? Because in the OverTheSpot
.BR
input_style, all the preedit information are moved into the 
.BR
OverTheSpot window (the small window appeared near the cursor of
.BR
the XIM client), so the original xcin main window seems to be too
.BR
large and waste a lot of space of the disktop. Therefore, if the
.BR
xcin 2nd main window is opened, then in the English input mode or
.BR
the OverTheSpot input_style, xcin will use the smaller 2nd main
.BR
window to display necessary information. But when the Root input_style
.BR
is enabled, the xcin will automatically switch to the original main
.BR
windown.

.TP
MAINWIN2_GEOMETRY:
The size and position of xcin 2nd main window.

.TP
XCIN_HIDE:
Hide xcin window when English input mode or not?

.TP
XKILL_DISABLE:
Disable the facility such that the Window Manager can terminate xcin
.BR 
through WM protocol or not?

.TP
ICCHECK_DISABLE:
Disable the IC checking facility or not? This facility can check the
.BR 
ICs and windows of all the XIM clients periodically.

.TP
SINGLE_IM_CONTEXT:
Let all the XIM clients to share the same IM data structer or not.
.BR 
The default is NO, i.e., the IM data structer of each XIM client
.BR 
are distinct, so the IM status of each XIM client is independent.
.BR 
If set this option to YES, then all the XIM clients will have the
.BR 
same IM status.

.TP
IM_FOCUS_ON:
Start the IM focus facility when running xcin. See the following for
.BR 
details.

.TP
KEEP_POSITION_ON:
Keep the position of the xcin window or not? If this option is opened,
.BR 
then xcin window will automatically appeared on the disktop when we
.BR 
switch between the virtual disktops. Also when we move the xcin 

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES 
.TP
XCIN_RCFILE     
set the file name of "rcfile".

.TP
LC_CTYPE        
set the character handling locale, default is "zh_TW.Big5".
.BR
This is depends on what kind of C library you are using.
.BR
Please refer to the command "locale -a".

.TP
LC_MESSAGES     
set the message output locale, default is "C" or "POSIX".
.BR
This is depends on what kind of C library you are using.
.BR
Please refer to the command "locale -a".

.TP
XMODIFIERS	
A usual locale name contains a definite format as following:
for example: 
under bash: XMODIFIERS="@im=<name>"; export XMODIFIERS

.SH SEE ALSO
locale(1) locale(5) locale(7), localedef(1) setlocale(3)

cin2tab(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
XCIN is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

.SH ACKNOWLEDGE
XCIN Team.<mailing-list: xcin@linux.org.tw>
          <www:          http://xcin.linux.org.tw>
          <ftp:          ftp://xcin.linux.org.tw/pub/xcin>
